[Music]
Hello, we are back
sweeps. It's really very
rare for me to like lose runs like this.
It happened once before and it was
actually possibly very related.
H if I can actually figure out the root
cause of what's happening
here, I'm definitely going to make
adjustments so that this never happens
again.
So, I guess what we have for now to look
at, we've got the 200 run sweep from
last
night and we have got the
sample and we'll see what params are
weird looking.
Okay, gamma is a little bit
low. The only really notable
thing, we do have samples though that
are that high. They just don't work as
well.
Fine. I just want to make sure like to
start that it is actually sampling
everywhere.
like you know there is a difference but
we should be able to get the results
even out here.
The mini batch sizes are like not that
far off from each
other. Actually, this does better with
32k.
is not finding the really ridiculous
small mini batch pram.
So, Adam beta
1 is notably too
right? And then beta 2 is notably too
high.
Not really though, cuz this at least you
have 0.9 Nat.
The only thing I've seen suspicious so
far is a few parameters that
like the top end. It's not like getting
all the way to the top
And maybe This is telling here. Maybe
this is
telling. Getting its best
results, two
environments, or two
2x496. The one that's good. And this
one's only doing half.
close? Like with one O, it's like
spending a lot of time on one
environment here and that matches with
this.
The
angel is Mary.
That's the biggest
like that's the biggest smoking gun we
found so far.
runs that I know is running the correct
mini batch and everything.
low. Well, the best run is O1. It does
have O1, so it's a little skewed, but
it's not
bad. Got gamma. Gamma is still too low.
Okay. So now this is two in a row for
gamma's too low.
Lambda.
This I've equated for and I' I've run
multiple tests, so don't worry about
86% is our
best 97.
Okay.
So having looked at
only thing that is consistently off is
gamma. If we look at gamma up top,
thing is you can get 90
score even with gamma
of.98 but I'm not that far off from
that. The thing is in order to get
higher than
80. Am I seeing [ __ ] or is this
legitimate?
Right. There's definitely a peak right
here. Right.
There's a big cluster of good runs above
0.9. If we go back to like the point 8,
we're fighting
over. No, there's still a gap. I think
there is still a gap.
Even with gamma being
set, it's weird that it doesn't go up to
max, but there is still a gap even
without it,
right? Pretty substantial
um not
this progress.
like it. This is how many
runs I'm going to freaking
count.
Or no, I'm going to count, but I'm going
to count more smart. I'm going to count
smarter than this.
count now the last page. Oh, be the
first page that I go
to. They're disabling runs.
We only get two
runs, three runs above
0.9 in the first
Here we get
zero. We get a whole bunch that are
above 08 in both
It's so weird to me. Like, this is such
strong evidence. Hey,
Spencer, I'm trying to fix sweeps. I can
chat though if you uh if you're around.
Looks like you got some results.
Yo.
Hey. I'm still stuck on sweeps, man.
If I fix this bug, I deserve to be
inducted by the Vatican into their like
secret holy order of demon slayers.
Oh, that's funny. This is like so
cursed, but it looks like you've been
getting results in the meantime.
Is there any is there any hope anymore
right now or is it uh pretty cursed at
the moment? I've run the same version of
the code.
Um, like I checked out the original
branch, I ran a full sweep and there's
like a 2x error
gap and it looks like the distribution
of hypers is very similar
across. I've like run a whole bunch of
follow-ups. I've like
checked that the transcript is
identical. I've checked that the sweep
configuration is identical. Um, I've
like gone through like probably 50
different commits. It's something
there's like possession involved here,
man.
Well, in some degree of positive news,
the terraforming stuff is seemingly
working now. Awesome. Um, it's not
perfect. There's things I'm running, you
know, I'm hunting for a Seg vault right
now, but you got the debug mode, right?
Yeah, I'm I'm running um it's really
annoying because I can't actually find
the bug the bug unless it's training and
it gets decently smart enough to
discover said zgf fall. Load up a
checkpoint. So yeah, I'm running load
load a checkpoint and train from
there with debug mode on.
Okay. I I just have GD I'm just running
the GDB with the train right now. It
takes forever to train with like you can
do that. And if if that doesn't work
though, what I would do is I'd get like
a checkpoint that's close to where it
crashes and resume training on that
checkpoint like load model path or
whatever. I think should be enough. Um,
is that a is that a thing right now in
the buffer RL? I've never done load from
checkpoint on resume from training. Is
that we can load a model. We we don't
load the optimizer state at the moment,
but we do load the
model. So it should at least do
something.
Okay. Well, hopefully this is just on
this run it will uh hopefully and how
dev terform results magical thing is it
run things.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it
[Music]
um I linked the sweep in the dev channel
back in it
And that is randomly assigned quadrants
right now just with one car running
around trying to find that it's its
target quadrant or is higher when you
run for
longer. Um but it doesn't look like
quadrants is
so the quadrant progress is as gets
reset every time you pick up a new
quadrant. So that's why that number gets
doesn't like peak to like 99 is because
that it averages down as you solve
quadrants.
So score is probably the most accurate
metric of like legit success because
when I ran eval with, you know, turning
off any form of resets, it's able to
solve like 15 to eight 15 to 20
quadrants just if you just let it run
forever. Oh, it found it found an issue.
Okay, solid.
I I've been posting some stuff just so
we get them. Like I think that we should
try When did we sign the thing? Was it
like the 8th or the 9th? Uh the eighth.
Okay. I think that we should try to like
just have barely started a thing on QD
for them in the next few days because uh
that will increase the odds of renewal.
Oh, you want to start doing is that what
their next task is? Yeah.
I mean, as you can see, it's like they
just like we package it for them very
very easily and they just don't get to
get around to like using it for quite a
while. But yeah, I mean, at least this
time like you can't they can't say like,
"Oh, it was too hard or whatever to like
it's we we've actually done it like
we've done a very very good job I think
this time on it." Just like Yeah.
bot can look at it next, you know, next
week and then close out this this round,
this contract and then see if we'll look
at renewals. Yeah, they should. I mean,
based on what we've delivered, I like I
can't see how they'll be like, now we
got it from here.
Yeah. I mean, we pretty much just
steamrolled whatever was there before.
which is how it should go generally when
we don't have crazy bugs. Like our core
tech is just that like it's that good
now that we should just be able to do
that. A lot of value add just being like
the ones who have been developing the
stuff and knowing how to make it sing.
Yeah. I mean the the next step that I
think even with doing QD is just also
having like proper train test split
evals while it trains.
Mhm. So, we'll discuss that and then we
can we can discuss privately offstream
whether you want to like continue stuff
with that and like know like depending
on what they propose next and how that's
going. But I think it's a pretty small
amount of work for having a a like
deliver some pretty good results. I
think it's a pretty good setup at the
moment. Yeah, like most the other
clients the other clients Yeah, the
other clients are like substantially
more work to be able to add that amount
of value. But yeah, we'll talk that. Um,
okay. But back on stream on Terraform.
So, here's the things that I'm changing
right now. Um, knowing that it can solve
uh quadrants. Uhhuh.
What it does at the moment, which is
kind of funny because it is optimal, but
it's not being punished for it, is every
time it solves a quadrant,
it actually takes a scoop out of the
quadrant it just solved to bring it to
the new target quadrant.
That's funny.
So, I'm adding in, you know, mechanics
to punish it from touching complete
quadrants.
That's actually so funny.
Which I was like, god damn it. Like, why
are you exploiting this? Because the RL
is just good, man.
Um, I I found one bug that is a little
annoying that's only related to doing
quadrant work. So, I did want to talk
with you about like is
their additional benefit at this point
knowing that it can solve quadrants the
way I've you know set up the reward
engineering to treat it as a problem of
you know perfectly solving all quadrants
on the map or letting it just try and
solve all map
because when you solve like all
quadrants you have to do like a little
bit more of checks on like you're not
screwing with previous quadrants you
know you're you're as you're changing
the world your targets in Those
quadrants are
modified. Like you could pull from
somewhere and then that current now like
the problem you gave it originally is
now different than when you spawn the
world.
I'm sorry. My brain just ignored all
like just like all those words did not
like what would you what' you say?
So I'm trying
to think about is it better
to do this kind of quadrant centric
learning. Uhhuh. Where you you know you
solve all the quadrants on the map and
then you solve the whole map or just
solve all map. It is but there are some
like more complex dynamics when you have
to deal with quadrants.
Why are there more complex dynamics?
Um you have to and I mean this is just
like in there. I don't think it's like
that big a deal. It's more like it as
you're running around the world, right,
you are taking things from other
quadrants to in order to optimize your
single quadrant, right? Oh, yeah. And
when you do that, when you when you set
up the original of just solving all map
and only care about all map, it doesn't
matter what you do in the meantime
because you still have one
like original delta to go off of. like
the world spawned like this and you need
to take it to this. When you're dealing
with quadrants, each quadrant's little
micro world gets modified throughout the
entire time until you become until it
becomes the
target. I wouldn't worry too much
because like we already have a bigger
map than they're going to need, don't
we? I guess it depends what resolution
we're assuming the simulation is running
at. Um yeah, I mean I dropped it to 64
by 64 just to like kind of get it.
What's a quadrant then?
because I just match it with the vision.
Oh, so if it's like 11 by 11 like So I
mean you could say it's 1 meter by you
could say it's 10, you know, 11 meters
by 11 meters if you wanted to. Yeah.
Well, assuming we're doing like the
granularity of it's like a very coarse
sim, right? But yeah, I mean if you I
mean it really just depends on what
number you pick. I mean to some degree
it's irrelevant. If it can solve, if it
can solve, you know, a total amount of,
you know, 4,000 quadrants on 64x 64, I
see no reason why it couldn't solve, you
know, 5,000
quadrants or 10,000. Yeah, I think it's
a fine it's a fine way to go for now,
especially like we
probably the more I like think about
what is the best way to go with these
Sims, right? the more I think I the more
I'm thinking like the best the first
thing we want to do is just like get
something cool that roughly looks like
the problem and then the details of
those like let's actually get the
contracts right before we put all the
effort the like all the details of it um
just so that you know we actually have
something going with that. I'm kind of
going to do the same thing on the new
sim that I'm working on.
Um, I think that's probably the main
thing. So, like, have you seen the
policies lately? Do they look cool?
Like,
what? Yeah. No, I mean, they work. You
know, it's pulling dirt from places.
It's it's flattening it out. I mean, I
haven't done to pllin to pear yet.
Um, right now it's going pearl to random
flats, but what's random flats?
What's up? Can you make it like
structured flats so it looks interesting
at least? Like so you like you make your
like Didn't you say that it's basically
just like a bunch of pads or whatever
that you build? Yeah.
So can you do something like that? I
could do structured flats. I mean I I
could make it a grid of
flats as opposed to just the whole thing
flat.
Well, like a grid of flats. It's like
there's like a divot. So they'd
basically have like a walkway in between
the plots or whatever is. Yeah, that's
how it would look. It would look like a
bunch of lots effectively. Lots. Yeah,
that would be decent. I think the other
thing that you could do if we wanted to
be slightly fancier is like we could
like I don't know just come up with some
structures to like randomly assign,
right? So we could make it like, oh
yeah, builds a pyramid in some of them.
It builds like a cube in others. It like
flattens like whatever. And then it
would just be really freaking obvious.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean you could do a whole
bunch of things. I mean at a at a next
immediate step for sure I could do like
a structured grid that looks like an
actual like subdivision. See if that
works. I think see if that works first
like some subdivisions and then we can
see if like we want to have them build
some stuff on the subdivisions, right?
Yeah. Yeah, I mean the only thing that
becomes complex there is I think you
I'll have to start adding another action
to like to expand the action space for
it to
determine how much dirt it's placing
along the square or like which rows it's
going to be placing because if you're
just dropping like big old squares, it
makes it kind of harder to learn I feel
like because you're losing granularity
with action. Like how do you going to
make like a triangle if you only can
drop squares?
triangle. Well, how many What is the Are
you D Are you still dropping like 2 by
two or 3 by3's? Like what are you
dropping? I'm doing 5x5s right now.
Okay. So, they're moving a lot of dirt
at a time right now. Yeah, that's
fine. Are they actually able to like
flatten it despite that?
Yeah, 100%. So, they've actually learned
like I have to line up this way. It's
able to entirely fully solve a quadrant
on the map running around. It takes dirt
from these mountains and then it it
basically spams running in a circle. Um,
and make sure that it actually makes
sense, right? Because it's got to be
like Well, I guess technically it can
shave like you don't have it can make it
can it doesn't have to make 10 x10s
despite having
So, the final goal is basically a what
is it?
uh 11 by 11 uhhuh for each quadrant
because I just decide to match for
vision and make things easier.
Um in optimal policy of shaving those
layers, what it does is it's going to
place one and say it needs to go
somewhere else. So it'll it'll delete
the area that's excess and then place
again. Yeah. Okay. Well, if it's
actually learning that, man, like I
think that How long do these runs take?
They're they're really fast, right?
Um, okay. Weird thing. I mean, on one
machine they run at a million steps per
second. On my base machine, they run at
like 500. So, I don't know why my
machine's being an idiot, but on the
buffer box, they run like 1 million. Um,
so I they look like five minute runs.
They take like five minute runs
effectively. Okay. So, I mean, I think
then like literally if assuming the
hypers are still good, you should
probably quite quickly be able to just
like, yeah, what if it does does plots?
Okay, does that work? Uh, okay. Can we
like put some sort of simple structures
on some of the plots? Right. Like you
should be able to get something like
that, I would think. Yeah. I mean, next
thing will be the structured grid. I I
need to clean up this seg fault, which
has to do with me selecting new target
quadrants again.
and then just deal with the the small
thing of the moving quadrant target like
deltas in the beginning. But that's
fine. They're they're all easily
solvable things. It's just tracking the
arrays properly.
And does there like does there just
happen to be enough dirt that like
roughly works out or what? Oh, I force I
force the dirt to be enough. Exactly.
Oh, okay. I do a scaling operation on
the original map to equate to the amount
of dirt that's needed on the target. All
right. Well, whatever. We'll deal with
the stuff later. I think like honestly,
so let's say that we have this thing and
it makes subdivisions and maybe like,
you know, some basic simple structures
on the subdivisions. Like maybe it will
like make like a ramp on some of them or
like put like a big cube in the middle
on like some others. Even like simple
stuff, not even like complicated shapes.
That should be enough to get some people
in industry excited, wouldn't you think?
I would think so. I mean, it's
just in this industry, you're going to
be looking at
like there's probably gonna I don't know
how much indust interest on industry
there's going to be from the actual big
players but there may be
yeah we have to we got to figure out how
we like how
we how we going to pitch or package it
right because it's like we can't just
plug it into their thing and just
immediately have it run on the dozers
right no I mean I think this is really
hyper specific just for those those two
guys that we talked with. Okay. Well,
and then what we should do is we should
think about what what other problems out
even in different industries, right?
This sim kind of looks like. Correct.
Right. So, we can talk about that later
um off stream as well cuz like pretty
much my goal for the next I have to get
3 out and I keep I like this should have
been done weeks ago, but I've like I've
hit every freaking demonic horrendous
problem in the book. Um, but that aside,
the main goal I I think is I want to do
more sim work. So, I want to get more
into Simside stuff with you. And I want
to just make a bunch of like things that
could apply to a bunch of places in the
industry and figure out how we translate
that into swinging a couple big
contracts because if I do that then like
the scaling problem for Puffer and like
all the servers and all the compute and
like you know even potentially getting
us some help on like this that's all
just solved if we can do that.
Yeah, that would be ideal.
I mean, there may be room for like
groups like Caterpillar that want to
play around with this. Um, or like that
would be a big one. Yeah, like that
would be like a really solid size.
Like the farming world could be
interested in things like this. I mean,
I could ask the farmer who's here
driving
around. Oh.
I don't know how much they do like
terraforming and stuff. They they like
have like the vision stuff for um
killing weeds. There's actually there's
the guy on one of the guys on the
Pokemon paper does that.
Oh yeah. Yeah. We got to just find
problems though where it's like this is
valuable and it's not shoehorned, right?
It's like ah yes, this is clearly a
thing where RL can help. Not like we
have a a hammer and everything looks
like a nail because it's really really
powerful tech. We just have to figure
out where to match it now that we
actually have it working.
Yeah. Either way, I think this will be a
cool industry sim that will at least be
good to look at and I think we have
possibly two people one I'd say at least
80% sure would probably want to go
forward. Yeah. Are you interested in
building out your own like presence in
this space? Because I mean it's a really
good formula for this is like building
these like building these awesome
things, positioning them reasonably,
doing a little write up and like putting
them on X. It's a pretty dang good
thing. That's what I've been doing at
least.
Yeah. I mean, I I think I want to, you
know, be able to build out, you know,
some of these contracts and build out
and build out a presence online of being
like the guy who's able to build these
industry sims. All right. All right.
Well, we'll talk about how we how we do
that. Um, cool. But yeah, for now, I
think just do some plots. I'm going to
try to figure out with this horribly
cursed sweep stuff. I also have uh the
cables and things I need
to figure out if I can get their tiny
boxes set up correctly. I got those
coming later today. So, that's what I'm
going to be working on for the next few
hours.
Yeah, once once you get sweeps going,
then I can drop it back on the GPU drive
because right now it's getting the
resampled 99 is cursed. Yeah.
All right, I will see if I can figure.
Welcome folks on YouTube.
pour myself more
coffee and then
uh we're going to figure out we got to
figure out this
sweep freaking nuts. We got to figure
out what's going wrong with it.
Got myself all wrapped up cuz I've got a
a bad
knee. Trying to keep it
warm. Hurt a shoulder. Hurt a knee. So,
can't really do much exercise. May as
well code all
day and fix
experiments. Those are the two things I
spend my time
doing. Can't do one, do the other all
day. All
right. Right. So I was looking at the
delta I
believe between this like ideal case
sweep and then the older
one. The thing is it's
like this narrows the gap quite a bit,
doesn't
It's like most of these runs are
shorter.
No.
this. I think I just have to color
match. So
These all take a little longer, don't
they? Then like eventually you
get 84
sub
100. This one's just really good. This
But it it even this one, this is 270 mil
steps,
right? When we're looking at these first
runs, the better
runs are taking more
steps.
Yes. So maybe that is the problem.
Maybe the core problem is around
time. I think that more than anything
that would make the most sense to me,
right? that the core problem is around
time and the thing just not running long
enough
experiments because the thing is
right you need to run these longer
experiments to see what run like what
parameters are stable and such and like
that can actually help you find
parameters that are shorter and good and
that's not happening on the left
now That's a very strong lead. That is a
very strong
lead. And that is consistent with all of
the repro experiments so
far. When are you taking us to
Mars? Uh, well, I'm not taking us to
Mars until we terraform it. We're
working on terraforming the thing. We're
going to ship our code out there next
week.
lost his chance. Nah, he's still going
to be terraforming Mars.
need to send at least 1
million per spaceship.
I think you need to like not
have current
propellants being used for
spaceships.
Um like the spaceships being that big or
like yeah it cost needs to come down
like that three orders of magnitude or
whatever. I don't know.
on the more practical side like there
are there are people looking at I mean I
don't know how many but there are people
looking at like fusion based engines
aren't
No
funding. Just privatized. Let's just
privatize the whole damn
See what is this
thing? That looks sweet.
This
was done in like
This was done in like 1959. Be able to do way better now.
Like you could
like I don't know. I don't know why.
Um I don't know why that hasn't been a
thing. I I'd have to ask like one of the
SpaceX guys or whatever if that's like
ever been
discussed. What are you trying to do?
Lunar lander? Nah, I'm just Tyler's a
physics guy, so we're uh I don't know. I
like physics. I like to shoot the [ __ ]
about stuff occasionally. I have no idea
what I'm talking about in it, so I
bounce crazy ideas off of him. And
uh occasionally I have useful RL tidbits
for
him. Partial test ban. Well,
that's I mean like if there's just if
there's stupid laws, fix the stupid
laws, right? Like we can't use nuclear
whatever. We're going to just we're
going to be we're going to go to
Cardartesev. We're going to climb the
Cardesev scale with nothing but freaking
hydrogen and whatever the oxygen
whatever the [ __ ] we're using. No.
All right, we were thinking about the
total time steps thing
here. Let's go run this real
quick or cue it. It's going to take a
while. Quite a while.
I have a hypothesis now
on the thing that is causing this, but I
don't know
The thing is they look very similar in
speed
apparently the power is going off. [ __ ]
me.
Um, so I'll have to relaunch a bunch of
things. I guess I'll just relaunch this.
So, I'll be back in a bit,